OSDOCS-12237-oc: Bug batching oc-mirror (#88938)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-18-release-notes.adoc

==== The Shared Resource CSI Driver is removed
The Shared Resource CSI Driver feature was deprecated in {product-title} 4.17, and is now removed from {product-title} 4.18. This feature is now generally available in Builds for Red Hat OpenShift 1.1. To use this feature, ensure you are using Builds for Red Hat OpenShift 1.1 or later.

[id="ocp-4-18-selected-bundled-removed_{context}"]
==== The selected bundles feature has been removed in oc-mirror v2

> The selected bundles feature has been removed in oc-mirror v2 general availability. This change prevents issues where specifying the wrong operator bundle version could break operators on a cluster. Customers using the oc-mirror v2 technology preview will no longer find this feature in the GA release. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-49419[*OCPBUGS-49419*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The selected bundles feature is removed from the oc-mirror v2 Generally Available release. This change prevents issues where specifying the wrong Operator bundle version could break the Operators in a cluster. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-49419[*OCPBUGS-49419*])
```
If we aren't supporting this feature, but want folks to update to GA, I think just saying you can't do this anymore is enough.

[id="ocp-release-note-observability-bug-fixes_{context}"]
==== Observability

[discrete]
[id="ocp-release-note-oc-mirror-bug-fixes_{context}"]
==== oc mirror

* Previously, when using `oc-mirror --v2 delete --generate`command, the contents of the working-dir/cluster-resources folder were cleared. With this fix, the working-dir/cluster-resources folder is not cleaned when the delete feature is used. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-48430[*OCPBUGS-48430*])

> * Previously, release images are now signed using a new SHA-256 trusted key instead of the previously used SHA-1 key. On {op-system-base} 9 FIPS STIG-compliant machines, verification of release signatures using the old SHA-1 key failed due to security restrictions on weak keys. This update ensures that oc-mirror now uses the SHA-256 key for release signature verification. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-48314[*OCPBUGS-48314*])

Author: Change to Previously, release images were signed using a SHA-1 key. Now they are signed using a new SHA-256 trusted key.

* Previously, on on the *Observe -> Alerting -> Silences* tab, the `creator` field was not autopopulated and was not designated as mandatory. This issue happened when the API made the field empty from {product-title} 4.15 and onwards. With this update, the field is marked as mandatory and populated with the current user for correct validation. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-35048[*OCPBUGS-35048*])

[discrete]
[id="ocp-release-note-oc-mirror-bug-fixes_{context}"]
==== oc-mirror

> * Previously, when using `oc-mirror --v2 delete --generate`command, the contents of the working-dir/cluster-resources folder were cleared. With this fix, the working-dir/cluster-resources folder is not cleaned when the delete feature is used. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-48430[*OCPBUGS-48430*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, when using `oc-mirror --v2 delete --generate`command, the contents of the `working-dir/cluster-resources` folder were cleared. With this fix, the `working-dir/cluster-resources` folder is not cleaned when the delete feature is used. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-48430[*OCPBUGS-48430*])
```

> * Previously, release images were signed using a SHA-1 key. On {op-system-base} 9 FIPS STIG-compliant machines, verification of release signatures using the old SHA-1 key failed due to security restrictions on weak keys. With this release, release images are signed using a new SHA-256 trusted key so that the release signatures no longer fail. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-48314[*OCPBUGS-48314*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, release images were signed using a `SHA-1` key. On {op-system-base} 9 FIPS STIG-compliant machines, verification of release signatures using the old `SHA-1` key failed due to security restrictions on weak keys. With this release, release images are signed using a new `SHA-256` trusted key so that the release signatures no longer fail. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-48314[*OCPBUGS-48314*])
```

> * Previously, when running oc-mirror v2 Technology Preview in mirror-to-disk mode within an disconnected environment, the tool attempted to download `graph.tar.gz` from `api.openshift.com`, causing the mirroring process to fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, when running oc-mirror v2 Technology Preview in mirror-to-disk mode within a disconnected environment, the tool attempted to download the `graph.tar.gz` file from the `api.openshift.com` website, causing the mirroring process to fail. 
```
solution and bug link are missing

Reviewer: Some of these bugs read like we have a TP version that is still supported and that 4.18 is an updated GA. Is 4.18 the GA of v2? If so, I think removing the TP mentions completely is more clear. Otherwise, it sounds like I might still be using the TP version (and that's OK). I think we want folks to update to the GA release, yes?

Author: Confirmed with our DPM to comment these out and have the writer review them next week for late inclusion. Nice catch!

+

> With this fix, when the `UPDATE_URL_OVERRIDE` environment variable is set, oc-mirror first checks for the graph image in the oc-mirror cache. If the image is not found, oc-mirror skips it without failing, ensuring successful mirroring in air-gapped environments. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38037[*OCPBUGS-38037*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this release, when the `UPDATE_URL_OVERRIDE` environment variable is set, oc-mirror first checks for the graph image in the `oc-mirror` cache. If the image is not found, oc-mirror skips it without failing, ensuring successful mirroring in air-gapped environments. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38037[*OCPBUGS-38037*])
```
Assuming the cache is called `oc-mirror`, otherwise, disregard

> * Previously, oc-mirror v2 Technology Preview did not support images referenced by both `tag` and `digest`. These images were excluded from the archive during the mirror-to-disk workflow, causing failures when mirroring from the archive to a disconnected mirror registry. With this fix, oc-mirror v2 includes these images in the archive by pulling the source image by `digest` while retaining the `tag` for reference. A warning message is displayed to inform users of this behavior.  (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-37867[*OCPBUGS-37867*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, oc-mirror v2 Technology Preview did not support images referenced by both `tag` and `digest`. These images were excluded from the archive during the mirror-to-disk workflow, causing failures when mirroring from the archive to a disconnected mirror registry. With this fix, oc-mirror v2 includes these images in the archive by pulling the source image by `digest` while retaining the `tag` for reference. A warning message is displayed to inform users of this behavior. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-37867[*OCPBUGS-37867*])
```

> * Previously, when using the --force-cache-delete flag to delete images from a remote registry, the deletion process did not work as expected. With this update, the issue has been resolved, ensuring that images are deleted properly when the flag is used. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-47690[*OCPBUGS-47690*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, when using the `--force-cache-delete` flag to delete images from a remote registry, the deletion process did not work as expected. With this update, the issue has been resolved, ensuring that images are deleted properly when the flag is used. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-47690[*OCPBUGS-47690*])
```

> * Previously, oc-mirror plugin v2 could not delete the graph image when mirrored using a partially disconnected mirroring workflow (mirror-to-mirror). With this update, graph images can now be deleted regardless of the mirroring workflow used. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-46145[*OCPBUGS-46145*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, oc-mirror plugin v2 could not delete the graph image when the mirroring using a partially disconnected mirroring workflow (mirror-to-mirror). With this update, graph images can now be deleted regardless of the mirroring workflow used. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-46145[*OCPBUGS-46145*])
```

> * Previously, if the same image was used by multiple OpenShift release components, oc-mirror plugin v2 attempted to delete the image multiple times, failing after the first attempt. This issue has been resolved by ensuring oc-mirror plugin v2 generates a list of unique images during the delete `--generate` phase. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-45299[*OCPBUGS-45299*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, if the same image was used by multiple {product-title} release components, the oc-mirror plugin v2 attempted to delete the image multiple times, but failed after the first attempt. This issue has been resolved by ensuring oc-mirror plugin v2 generates a list of unique images during the delete `--generate` phase. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-45299[*OCPBUGS-45299*])
```

> * Previously, mirroring a release that used a digest instead of a tag did not work as expected. This issue has been fixed, ensuring successful mirroring for releases that use digests. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-45249[*OCPBUGS-45249*])

Reviewer: Hm, is this bug a clone of https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/88938/files#diff-de8385a4382941faf5716af81fb130e1c918992441901815806051dbf153b083R1747 and a duplicate?

> * Previously, `oci` catalogs on disk were not mirrored correctly in oc-mirror plugin v2. With this update, `oci` catalogs are now successfully mirrored. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44225[*OCPBUGS-44225*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, `oci` catalogs on disk were not mirrored correctly in the oc-mirror plugin v2. With this update, `oci` catalogs are now successfully mirrored. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44225[*OCPBUGS-44225*])
```

> * Previously, if you reran the `oc-mirror` command,  the rebuild of the `oci` catalog failed and an error was outputted. With this release, if you rerun the command, the wroksapce file is deleted so that failed catalog issue does not happen. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-45171[*OCPBUGS-45171*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, if you reran the `oc-mirror` command, the rebuild of the `oci` catalog failed and an error was generated. With this release, if you rerun the `oc-mirror` command, the workspace file is deleted so that the failed catalog issue does not happen. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-45171[*OCPBUGS-45171*])
```

* Previously, if you ran the `oc adm node-image create` command on the first attempt, sometimes an `image can't be pulled` error message was outputted on the terminal. With this release, a patch is applied to the command where the patch adds a retry mechanism to address temporary failures when pulling the image from the release payload. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44388[*OCPBUGS-44388*])

* Previously, `oci` catalogs on disk were not mirrored correctly in oc-mirror plugin v2. With this update, `oci` catalogs are now successfully mirrored. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-44225[*OCPBUGS-44225*])

> * Previously, duplicate entries could appear in the signature `ConfigMap YAML` and `JSON` files created in `clusterresource`, leading to issues when applying them to the cluster. This update ensures that the generated files do not contain duplicates. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-42428[*OCPBUGS-42428*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, duplicate entries could appear in the signature `ConfigMap YAML` and `JSON` files created in the `clusterresource` object, leading to issues when applying them to the cluster. This update ensures that the generated files do not contain duplicates. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-42428[*OCPBUGS-42428*])
```
is this an object?

> * Previously, API calls to Cincinnati that encountered errors did not fail immediately, potentially leading to inconsistencies. With this update, errors related to Cincinnati are now considered severe and cause an immediate failure. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38461[*OCPBUGS-38461*])

Author: I know very little about oc-mirror so I'll comment out and ask the writer to confirm next week.

> * Previously, the release signature `ConfigMap` for oc-mirror plugin v2 was incorrectly stored in an archived TAR file instead of in the `cluster-resources` folder. This caused `mirror2disk` to fail. With this release. the release signature `ConfigMap` for oc-mirror plugin v2 that is in JSON format or YAML format, compatible with  oc-mirror plugin v1, now get stored in the `cluster-resources` folder. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38343[*OCPBUGS-38343*]) and (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38233[*OCPBUGS-38233*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, the release signature `ConfigMap` for oc-mirror plugin v2 was incorrectly stored in an archived TAR file instead of in the `cluster-resources` folder. This caused `mirror2disk` to fail. With this release. the release signature `ConfigMap` for oc-mirror plugin v2 that is in JSON format or YAML format, compatible with oc-mirror plugin v1, now get stored in the `cluster-resources` folder. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38343[*OCPBUGS-38343*]) and (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38233[*OCPBUGS-38233*])
```

* Previously, when running oc-mirror v2 Technology Preview in mirror-to-disk mode within an disconnected environment, the tool attempted to download `graph.tar.gz` from `api.openshift.com`, causing the mirroring process to fail. With this fix, when the `UPDATE_URL_OVERRIDE` environment variable is set, oc-mirror first checks for the graph image in the oc-mirror cache. If the image is not found, oc-mirror skips it without failing, ensuring successful mirroring in air-gapped environments. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-38037[*OCPBUGS-38037*])

> * Previously, oc-mirror v2 Technology Preview did not support images referenced by both `tag` and `digest`. These images were excluded from the archive during the mirror-to-disk workflow, causing failures when mirroring from the archive to a disconnected mirror registry. With this fix, oc-mirror v2 includes these images in the archive by pulling the source image by `digest` while retaining the `tag` for reference. A warning message is displayed to inform users of this behavior.  (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-37867[*OCPBUGS-37867*])

Reviewer: duplicate

Author: Commented out

> * Previously, using an invalid log-level flag caused oc-mirror plugin v2 to panic. This update ensures that oc-mirror plugin v2 handles invalid log levels gracefully. Additionally, the `loglevel` flag has been renamed to `log-level` to align with tools like Podman. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-37740[*OCPBUGS-37740*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, using an invalid log-level flag caused oc-mirror plugin v2 to panic. This update ensures that the oc-mirror plugin v2 handles invalid log levels gracefully. Additionally, the `loglevel` flag has been renamed to `log-level` to align with tools like Podman for the convenience of the user. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-37740[*OCPBUGS-37740*])
```

[discrete]
[id="ocp-release-note-openshift-cli-bug-fixes_{context}"]
==== OpenShift CLI (oc)

> * Previously, the `oc adm node-image create --pxe generated` command did not create only the Preboot Execution Environment (PXE) artifacts. Instead, the command created the PXE artifacts with other artifacts from a `node-joiner` pod and stored them all in the wrong subdirectory. Additionally, the PXE artifacts were incorrectly prefixed with `agent` instead of `node`. With this release, generated PXE artifacts are stored in the correct directory and receive the correct prefix. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-46449[*OCPBUGS-46449*])

Reviewer: Does the command still generate the extraneous artifacts from the `node-joiner` pod?

Author: I cannot answer this. The writer will need to confirm.

[id="ocp-4-18-known-issues_{context}"]
== Known issues

* oc-mirror plugin v2 currently returns an exit status of `0` (success) even when mirroring errors occur. As a result, customers should not rely on the exit status in automated workflows. Until this issue is resolved, users should manually check the `mirroring_errors_XXX_XXX.txt` file generated by `oc-mirror` for any errors. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-49880[*OCPBUGS-49880*])

* The DNF package manager included in {op-system-first} images cannot be used at runtime, because DNF relies on additional packages to access entitled nodes in a cluster that are under a Red Hat subscription. As a workaround, use the `rpm-ostree` command instead. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-35247[*OCPBUGS-35247*])

> * When you used oc-mirror v2 Technology Preview in a mirror-to-mirror workflow, logs displayed catalog images twice. This could mislead users into thinking the catalog image was mirrored twice. In reality, the image was copied once to the destination registry and once to the oc-mirror local cache. This issue has been fixed to ensure logs accurately reflect the mirroring process. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-41331[*OCPBUGS-41331*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When you used oc-mirror v2 Technology Preview in a mirror-to-mirror workflow, logs displayed catalog images twice. This could mislead users into thinking that the catalog image was mirrored twice. In reality, the image was copied once to the destination registry and once to the `oc-mirror` local cache. This issue has been fixed to ensure that the logs accurately reflect the mirroring process. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-41331[*OCPBUGS-41331*])
```

Reviewer: Is this a bug fix or a KI? Seems like a bug fix.

Author: Added to the list for the writer to review.
